
This file lists bugs known to the current XWorkplace release.
I keep adding bugs which are reported through xworkplace-user@egroups.com
to this file and remove them when they are fixed.

Please don't report bugs which are already mentioned in this file. Thanks.

Even though this file might look dangerously large, this doesn't mean that
XWorkplace is dangerously unstable. Many of the bugs below are only minor
quirks or funny misbehaviors which will not cause your system to hang or
crash. And even if some behavior is not acceptable, you can always disable
XWorkplace features in the "XWorkplace Setup" object. This applies to
PageMage especially.

Ulrich M”ller.


SERIOUS PROBLEMS
----------------

--  "create another" for folders can lead to black-screen trap (see readme)


FIXPAK 13/14
------------

This is my private bug list for FP13/14:

-- Sometimes after a WPS restart, the WPS doesn't populate
   the Desktop, and the system hangs. I'm not sure what this
   is about. This doesn't happen with FP11, and it happens
   with my Desktop even if I disable XWP.

   UPDATE: I was told at Warpstock Europe that this has been
   fixed with kernel build level 14.050.

-- IBM has ruined the DosQProcStat and DosQuerySysState APIs.
   These still return garbage with FP14 sometimes.

-- Apparently, DosPerfSysCall doesn't work any more either.
   This causes a number of CPU meters to display garbage.
   Daniela Engert told me that the timers are no longer
   automatically initialized when the kernel starts up.

-- Please don't complain about misaligned text in Details
   views, which is no longer vertically centered. It's not
   XWorkplace's fault, but another bug introduced with FP13
   or 14, I don't know. I only noticed it now after installing
   FP14.


CHECK ON A CLEAN SYSTEM
-----------------------

-- "Ignore desktop" with sliding focus broken?


NOT-SO-SERIOUS PROBLEMS
-----------------------

>I thought we discussed some time ago removing the "standard shutdown"
>option from the shutdown submenu. If I enable XWP's shutdown but not
>the submenu the 'standard shutdown' is removed from my popup. Why
>can't I get rid of it on the submenu too?

>Finally, on the "File" notebook page (with WarpSans font, resolution
>800x600, 4-digit year YYYY-MM-DD), there is some text clipping evident.

>-Right click on a file object (program object does not cause this bug)
>select copy.
>-enter new name(different one), leave it to default folder which should be
>the one where the file was selected
>and voila pop-up appears telling user that there is a name conflict, but the
>new name is not in that folder!

>OS/2 Kernel object: Set Path -> Browse will not work (Standard file
>dialog doesn't react when OK is pressed -> nothing happens)

I think there are some problems (not severe) probably with variables
initialisation somewhere in XWPS. I have "Folder menu bars" as well as
"Status bars" permanently turned on. When I try to turn them on/off
from the "View" menu on a folder menu bar, it has no effect. Now when I
go to the folder properties and disable both features (Menu bars and
status bars) and then enable them again by :
"Folder system menu"->"View"->"Menu bars"/"Status bars" these option in
the "View" menu on the _menu_bar_ start to work as expected.
When I close and reopen the folder these options in the "View" menu of
the "Menu bar" do not work again.

extended assocs:
    --  break SysOpenObject REXX API?
    >1. drop via context menu doesn't work (Shift right click does). No way
    >to cancel drop.
    >2. There should be a possibility to RENAME file types (ALT left click
    >for consistency) If you have hierachical file types deleting and
    >recreating a file type to rename it is really cumbersome, if there are
    >file types 'below'.
    >3. Files with spaces in the name/path are not opened any longer (needed
    >extensively with DragText files here)
    >4. WPS file types(!)/associations should be imported automatically,
    >somehow. Perhaps for filters without file types new types could be
    >created just saying 'PNG file', 'XLS file'... Could be renamed
    >afterwards (see 2)
    >5. What about files like StarOffice documents? Their first association
    >(SO5.1a) is not shown in the open submenu, because they use some
    >special WPS class. This association cannot be managed from XWPS. (same
    >goes for WordPro, 1-2-3 files I guess).
    >6. There should be a way to indicate the standard association. (top
    >most?)
    >7. multiple associations with the same app (object) should not be shown
    >in the file-open menu. (if HTML is text/html as well for instance)

file types:
    -- pickup doesn't work right
    -- help menu items don't work
    -- fix environments
    -- spaces in files names don't work
    -- WPOBJ_HANDLE env var not set

XWPSetup:
    -- "Undo" and "Default" don't affect newer settings (trashcan);
       PageMage isn't affected

sounds:
    -- "Enable system sounds" on "Sound" page has no immediate effect;
       however, this didn't work for old WPS page either
    -- Do not use default device for WAV files. Instead, open the default
       device and let it play the WAV files.
    -- broke with V0.9.6
    -- codes page hangs sometimes

folders:
    -- dragging stuff to folders crashes WPS if folder is being populated
            (probably a WPS bug)
    -- shadows missing if "always sort" and "folders first" are enabled

trash can:
    -- sorting doesn't work right
    -- When you delete an object, it probably retains its object ID, because
       if a program tries to UPDATE the object that has been deleted, it
       effectively updates the object in the TrashCan, while it should
       create a new one.
    -- In the trash can, the Size of the object deleted is not displayed
       using the user's country specific settings.

NetscDDE:
    -- With the Netscape DDE feature Netscape does not get the right location of
       what to display - the '„' (german Umlaut) gets lost.

PageMage:
    -- window creation/destroy/activation not recognized sometimes
    -- I'm using xworkplace 0.95 and find that the os/2 enhanced
       editor, EPM, acts as a sticky app in PageMage
    -- Odin windows
    1)  Full Screen Apps are not recognized properly.
        Open a full screen app (or make one full screen) and try to
        drag it across (won't work!) or switch screen and go back (won't show
        the FS app!)
    3)  The title of an application windows is not updated properly (if at
        all) in the pagemage window

hook:
    --  sliding menus:
            -- "conditional cascade sensitivity": always hilite, but just don't select
            -- no submenu delays for menu bars (immediate open)

    --  there is a little bug with the settings notebook of the mouse - movement 2.
        I can drag and drop objects to the open object, but it doesn't work with
        the pickup and drop feature of Warp. Than there is no object given.

    --  When Sliding focus is On, in seamless WinOS2 programs like MS Excel
        when you right-click and then move your mouse over the context menu
        it immediately disappears, so you actually cannot use it.

    -- Mouse pointer doesn't reappear when clicking buttons if hide mouse
       pointer is enabled.

    -- sliding focus:
       -- topmost window doesn't become active after previous wnd destroy

    -- MB3 scroll:
       -- VIEW.EXE TOC not fully shown

    -- VIO copy conflicts with WM_CHORD; check window class

    --  I did some more experimenting, and I have discovered what is wrong
        with the "Ignore desktop" option in "Sliding focus".
        The problem is that somehow WXP forgets its setting between reboots.
        The option stays selected in the mouse properties notebook, but no longer works.
        The only solution I have been able to find is to disable the XWP Hook and
        then re-enable it. This will cure the problem, although the procedure still
        has to be repeated after every reboot.
        I hardly ever reboot (my system is kept running on a 24x7 basis), so it
        took me a while to discover the error, let alone find out what made it happen.
        BTW, The behaviour is the same with both the Internal Revision 14.044-W4
        (original FP14) kernel and the Internal Revision 14.057-W4 (the one I wrote
        about earlier).

